# Variable Codebook

This file contains the description for each variable in the dataset generated by the [run_analysis.R](https://github.com/josemanuelnavarro/datasciencecoursera/tree/master/course%203%20project/run.analysis.R) script, `result`.

In order of appearance, the presented variables are:

## ID variables

1. subject: (numeric) an ID identifying the subject that performed the tests.
2. activity: (factor) a factor with the label of the performed activity.

## Measured signals in time domain

All these variables are numeric, ranged between -1 and 1 and measure the mean average and mean standard deviations obtained for the following measurements:

3 to 8. tBodyAcc: X, Y and Z axis of the body acceleration signal.
9 to 14. tGravityAcc: X, Y and Z axis of the gravity acceleration signal.
15 to 20. tBodyAccJerk: X, Y and Z axis of the derivation of the body linear acceleration.
21 to 26. tBodyGyro: X, Y and Z axis of the angular velocity.
27 to 32. tBodyGyroJerk: X, Y and Z axis of the derivation of the angular velocity.
33 and 34. tBodyAccMag: magnitude of the body acceleration using the Euclidean norm.
35 and 36. tGravityAccMag: magnitude of the gravity acceleration using the Euclidean norm.
37 and 38. tBodyAccJerkMag: magnitude of the derivation of the body acceleration using the Euclidean norm.
39 and 40. tBodyGyroMag: magnitude of the angular velocity using the Euclidean norm.
41 and 42. tBodyGyroJerkMag: magnitude of the derivation of the angular velocity using the Euclidean norm.

## Measured signals in frequency domain

All these variables are numeric, ranged between -1 and 1 and measure the mean average and mean standard deviations obtained for the following measurements:

43 to 48. fBodyAcc: X, Y and Z axis of the fast fourier transform of the body acceleration signal.
49 to 54. fBodyAccJerk: X, Y and Z axis of the fast fourier transform of the derivation of the body acceleration signal.
55 to 60. fBodyGyro: X, Y and Z axis of the fast fourier transform of the angular velocity signal.
61 and 62. fBodyAccMag:  magnitude of the fast fourier transform of the body acceleration using the Euclidean norm.
63 and 64. fBodyBodyAccJerkMag: magnitude of the fast fourier transform of the derivation of a body acceleration (not explained in the original code book).
65 and 66. fBodyBodyGyroMag: magnitude of the fast fourier transform of an angular velocity (not explained in the original code book).
67 and 68. fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag: magnitude of the fast fourier transform of the derivation of an angular velocity (not explained in the original code book).
